You guys come back to the course.
So in this lecture I'm just going to talk a little bit about an option that is available to all of you
who do development businesses.
This is something that a lot of people do not take advantage of.
Now if you're following this course we've talked considerably about how important using subcontracting
is and that when you are using subcontracting the point is that you're going to have some sort of a
margin from what you pay your contractor and what you charge your client right now and that's primarily
what makes this a business.
That's primarily what makes it helpful for you.
Even if you are a programmer to bring in other people if you're just bringing in other people and charging
exactly what they are charging passing on essentially their fee then there's really not a huge point
to adding subcontractors in general.
So I want to talk just a little bit about what you can do.
This is a great strategy for getting off the ground after you do have your template Web site up and
you've gotten to a point where you think you know you've had enough clients and you have enough of a
portfolio what you can do is very very effective.
You can actually barter off your services to other people.
So if you don't have a great designer that you want to work with or you don't simply want to spend the
money to get the design done what you can actually do is barter for it.
So if someone were to design our website from scratch I mean I would probably say you know it's close
to 10 pages once a page with an entirely separate design it has custom J. Yes we have blog integration.
You know I'd probably say it's three to four thousand dollars and the way we went through multiple iterations
as well.
We have custom icon sets as well multiple logos et cetera.
So it probably costs you know $45000 to get this site designed.
What we actually ended up doing at the very beginning because I simply just didn't want to fork over
the mount of money is I just made a deal with a designer who was running a business who needed development
work and so we just split the two.
I gave him a reduced rate.
I reduced the rate down to what exactly I pay out to my contractors.
And then I gave him myself as a project manager and then I ran the management layer and he on the side
designed our Web site so I bring it up here because this is our old collaboration page where we used
to work with a lot of companies and do this barter system.
And that was a great way of collaborating and what we would typically do is mark ourselves at the bottom
of each one of these collaboration and we always do these for a reduced fee and it is a great way of
getting our name out there but also growing our portfolio.
So in this case the project that we built was called hub Qik.
We literally just did a swap and over the course of three months we built his application.
He designed our Web site.
It worked out perfectly well.
This is actually the designers web site.
He does a lot of high profile Web sites.
So the way that you would go about creating a partnership like this is pretty easy the way that we did
it actually was that we posted a collaboration page like this.
And we looked for people who essentially had an idea.
It was interesting and they themselves had design skills or some skill kind of in the same area and
they just wanted to see if they could get a reduced rate if as a project we liked or B that we could
somehow use to our advantage.
And they actually reach out to us through this.
But similarly what you can do is if you find a designer that you really do look like and there's some
indication that they're building their own projects you can offer them development services in exchange
for design.
Now your infinite advantage in this scenario is that there's a margin between what you charge and what
your contractors expect you to pay them.
So if you charge $50 an hour and you owe your contractors $30 an hour you can charge $30 an hour and
then say f per For every hour that we work I just save you $20 an hour and you can use that as a rough
guideline to essentially barter saying you know this is how much of a reduction I'm giving you over
the course of your project I gave you a $2000 reduction.
So if you give us $2000 and design services that'll make up for it.
Typically graphic designers and even design firms like doing this because they like creating partnerships
with development firms they get to share their clients together but also again for them they get to
use it as a portfolio item and design it comes naturally to them.
So it's not as if they feel like they're having to pay you cold cash.
So yeah this is a kind of a virtuous circle scenario where you can create a synergistic relationship
and it actually ends up working out really well.
This was a very large application that we built that we also sent to this designer.
We worked together on four or five other projects after that.
So keep in mind guys you have a margin.
Use that margin to your advantage if you want to see if you can pull this off or reach out to designers
you like that have internal projects offer them vastly reduced development services in exchange for
design.
It's a slow road to getting a better web site but it saves you a ton of money and is a great way of
essentially getting a free Web site.
So keep that in mind.
I'll see you in the next lecture.